# DPMA_lab_1

The purpose of the exercise is to study the properties of matched filtering on a signal of LFM type.

## Available functions:

getConfig() - retrieves physical constants and configuration (e.g., sampling rate)

crandn(n) - function that generates composite random variables with a Gaussian distribution (by default their variance is sqrt(2)),
n - the size of the generated string

getChirp(f_low, f_high, duration) - function that generates a composite signal of LFM type.
f_low - lower frequency of the signal [Hz].
f_high - upper frequency of the signal [Hz].
duration - signal duration [s].
The generated signal has variance=1.

## Tasks to be performed

1 Generate the signal and its basic properties
Generate an LMF signal with a duration of 10ms. Select the frequency range in such a way that in the time domain (the real part is enough) the increase in frequency is visible in the figure.
Plot its time-domain waveform and spectrum (include both drawings in the report).

2. signal correlation in the presence of noise
Generate a noisy LFM signal (LFM + noise) such that the signal-to-noise ratio is SNR=-60dB=10*log10(varLFM/varNoise).
Please note that the default noise variance generated by the crandn() function is sqrt(2).
Using the xcorr() function (the function belongs to the signal package, which must be loaded in advance with the pkg load signal command), correlate the original LFM signal (with a variance equal to 1) with the received noisy signal.
Plot the modulus of the obtained waveform.
Examine the height of the maximum of the obtained waveform for 4 different durations.
What is the relationship between the duration (or number of samples) and the maximum of the correlation function?
In the report, include the time waveform of the noisy LFM signal and the waveform of the correlation function.
Show the relationship between the extremes and the duration.

3. dependence of the width of the main leaf on the bandwidth of the signal.
Generate an LFM signal with a duration of 10 ms and frequencies from 500 Hz to 1500 Hz.
Correlate the signal with itself, draw the module of the obtained waveform.
Write a function that automatically determines the 3dB width of the main leaf.
Check the width of the main leaf for 3 different frequency ranges.
Comment on the results obtained.
Put the listing of the function calculating the 3dB width of the main leaf in the report.
Comment on the results obtained.

4 Correlation when there are several signal sources
Assume that there are 4 objects in the radar observation field at distances D=[500 800 1300 2000] [m].
Calculate what will be the delay between the transmitted and received signal for each object (the value of c is in the getConfig function).
Equation: t=2*d/c
Generate a simulation of the received signal - assume that the level of each received signal is -80dB, and round the delays resulting from the propagation time to the full number of samples.
Perform correlation with the transmitted signal (LFM without delays).
Plot the distance profile (correlation, but replace the X axis so that it is scaled in meters).
What minimum bandwidth must the signal have in order to distinguish neighboring objects?
What must be the duration of the signal for the extremum of the correlation to be an expression higher than the noise level?
In your report, include a graph of the distance profile along with the parameters of the LFM signal used.
Comment on the results.
